# Violent-crimes-analysis-during-lockdown
Crimes that involve any threat of force and harm are classified as violent crimes according to reports by American Psychological Association. Most recorded violent crimes in recent times are sexual assault, violence, murder, robbery, and other crime forms that can be a threat to life (Cleckely, 1982). Mass shootings have resulted in a huge number of people deaths and injure, these crimes also fall in the category of violence due to their rarity (Fleisher, 1995). Since the coronavirus outbreak, it has resulted in an increase of domestic violence. The first lockdown in Britain was imposed in April 2020, as coronavirus created chaos in the health and economic departments. Though these regulations made sense, according to police recorded crime data, they resulted in a surge of domestic abuse-related crimes due to increased unemployment, financial insecurity, and child abuse since parents and children were now confined to their homes and it was not possible to see any signs of abuse and violence. Moreover, all these factors also resulted in the growth of abuse and violence against women from their male partners (Piquero et al., 2021). The highest recorded crimes were related to 
breaking lockdown restrictions, and drug offenses. After the lockdown measures eased around the country crime rates again started to rise in most categories but not as high as prepandemic.

# Dataset
The data here is provided by UK Police Official Street-level crime data (Police 2021) made available under an Open Government License (OGLv3) since 2010. The data is placed on an appropriate cloud server and is available for research purposes. It contains 43 million observations together with crimes and location data. The attribute includes Crime Id, the month of the crime, reported by, falls in, context, and other data related to the location of the crime. Both datasets are in a well-structured format. Overall, sixteen crime categories were analyzed which includes 1) Bicycle theft, 2) Public order, 3) Drugs, 4) Public disorder and weapons, 5) Other crime, 6) Robbery, 7) Criminal 
damage and arson, 8) Theft from the person, 9) Shoplifting, 10) Burglary, 12) Violent crime, 13) Other theft, 14) Possession of weapons, 15) Violence and sexual offenses, and 16) Vehicle crime.
